#summary Building IMSDroid v2.x
#labels Featured,Phase-Support

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

== Building Java Code ==
To build the java code you only need Eclipse and Android SDK. 

== Building Native libraries ==
IMSDroid contains only one native library (*tinyWRAP.so*) written in C++ as a wrapper for [http://www.doubango.org/ doubango] project. The JNI files are generated using [http://www.swig.org/ SWIG].<br />
To build *tinyWRAP* you have to build all [http://www.doubango.org/ doubango]'s libraries (ANSI-C).<br /> 
*tinyWRAP* depends on:
 * *tinySAK* (Swiss Army Knife): Utilities functions (SHA-1, MD5, HMAC, String, List, Timers, Thread, Mutex, Semaphore, ...)
 * *tinyNET*: Networking (DNS, DHCPv4/v6, STUN, TURN, ICE, ENUM, Sockets, ...)
 * *tinyHTTP*: HTTP stack (CONNECT, DELETE, GET, HEAD, OPTIONS, PATCH, POST, PUT, TRACE, ...)
 * *tinyXCAP*: XCAP stack (AUID manager, URL generator) without XML parser (See Java code for parsers)
 * *tinyIPSec*: IPSec SA manager. Useless for Android but you MUST have it
 * *tinySMS*: SMS over IP (SM-TL, SM-RL) for IMS/LTE networks
 * *tinySIGCOMP:* Signaling Compression
 * *tinySDP*: SDP protocol
 * *tinyRTP*: RTP/RTCP protocols
 * *tinyMSRP*: MSRP protocol (Chat and File Transfer)
 * *tinyMEDIA*: Media plugins manager (Audio, video, Codecs, sessions, MSRP, QoS, ...)
 * *tinyDAV*(Doubango Audio Video): Media plugins implementation
 * *tinySIP*: SIP/IMS stack

The project also depends on FFmpeg, x264, opencore-amr, libogg, libvorbis, libtheora, iLBC, Speex, ... but you don't need to rebuild these libraries as they are already part of doubango (*$(DOUBANGO_HOME)/thirdparties/android/lib*).

=== Checkout doubango ===
{{{
svn checkout http://doubango.googlecode.com/svn/branches/2.0/doubango doubango-read-only
}}}

=== Adjusting *root.mk* ===
 # goto *$(DOUBANGO_HOME)/android-projects* and open *root.mk* with your preferred text editor
 # Change *$ANDROID_NDK_ROOT* variable to point to the NDK root directory (e.g. */cygdrive/c/android-ndk*)
 # Change *$ANDROID_SDK_ROOT* variable to point to the SDK root directory (e.g. */cygdrive/c/android-sdk*). This step is not required if you don't wish to use *adb* utility.
 # Change *$ANDROID_PLATFORM* variable to point to your preferred platform root directory (e.g. *$(ANDROID_NDK_ROOT)/build/platforms/android-1.5*)
 # Set *$ANDROID_GCC_VER* variable with your GCC version (e.g. *4.2.1*)
 # Open new Console window
 # Add the toolchain root binary directory to the system *$PATH* if not already done:
{{{ 
export PATH=$ANDROID_NDK_ROOT\build\prebuilt\$(HOST)\arm-eabi-4.2.1\bin:$PATH
}}} 
 where *$HOST* is equal to *darwin-x86* on MAC OS X, *windows* on Windows XP/Vista/7 and *linux-x86* on Unix-like systems. We assume that *$(ANDROID_GCC_VER)* is equal to *4.2.1*.<br />
 # Set your custom *$(CFLAGS)* flags to change the default behavior. Example:
{{{
export CFLAGS="–Os –DDEBUG_LEVEL=DEBUG_LEVEL_ERROR"
}}}
You can off course set any valid GCC *$(CFLAGS)* flags. <br />
Example of doubango's specific flags: 
 * *-DTNET_HAVE_OPENSSL_H=1*: Enable support for __TLS__ (You MUST have *OpenSSL*)
 * *-DJB_HISTORY_SIZE=500*: Set audio jitter buffer size to 500 frames
 * *-DFLIP_DECODED_PICT=1*: Flip the decode video frames
 * ...

=== Building libtinyWRAP.so without G729AB ===
 # Go to the android-projects root directory:
{{{
cd $(DOUBANGO_HOME)/android-projects
}}}
 # Build all projects:
{{{
../bindings/java/android/buildAll.sh

# For neon optimizations
#../bindings/java/android/buildAll.sh NEON=yes
}}}
You can add *NEON=yes* to enable neon optimization for armv7-a processors. You MUST use at least [http://developer.android.com/sdk/ndk/index.html NDK r4b].<br />
The binaries will be generated under *$(DOUBANGO_HOME)/android-projects/output*.
The shared libraries will be named *libtinyWRAP_armv7-a.so* if built with *neon* optimizations. Otherwise it will be named *libtinyWRAP_armv5te.so*. Rename the library as *libtinyWRAP.so* and copy it to *imsdroid\libs\$(ABI)* where *ABI* is equal to *armeabi* for the ARMv5te version or *armeabi-v7a* for ARMv7-a.

=== Building libtinyWRAP.so with G729AB ===
Starting IMSDroid revision 311 and [http://www.doubango.org/ doubango] revision 498 we fully support G.729 annex A and B (CNG and VAD).<br />
<br />
G.729 should only be used for experimental purpose. G.729 includes patents from several companies and is licensed by Sipro Lab Telecom. <br />
Sipro Lab Telecom is the authorized Intellectual Property Licensing Administrator for G.729 technology and patent pool.<br />
In a number of countries, the use of G.729 may require a license fee and/or royalty fee.
<br />
Because of the licensing issue the application is not built with G.729.<br />
To build *libtinyWRAP.so* with G.729AB support:
 # Go into $(DOUBANGO_HOME) directory
{{{
cd $(DOUBANGO_HOME)
}}}
 # Checkout the ARM optimized version of G729AB into */cygdrive/c/tmp*
{{{
svn checkout http://g729.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ /cygdrive/c/tmp/g729b
}}}
 # Copy G729AB files into [http://www.doubango.org/ doubango] project
{{{
cp -f /cygdrive/c/tmp/g729b/* $(DOUBANGO_HOME)/g729b
}}}
 # Build and install G729AB library
{{{
cd $(DOUBANGO_HOME)/android-projects
make PROJECT=g729b BT=static install

#For cleanup
#make PROJECT=g729b BT=static clean
}}}
 # Build tinyWRAP with G29AB
{{{
../bindings/java/android/buildAll.sh G729=yes

# For neon optimizations
#../bindings/java/android/buildAll.sh G729=yes NEON=yes
}}}

You can add *NEON=yes* to enable neon optimization for armv7-a processors. You MUST use at least [http://developer.android.com/sdk/ndk/index.html NDK r4b].<br />
The binaries will be generated under *$(DOUBANGO_HOME)/android-projects/output*.
The shared libraries will be named *libtinyWRAP_armv7-a.so* if built with *neon* optimizations. Otherwise it will be named *libtinyWRAP_armv5te.so*. Rename the library as *libtinyWRAP.so* and copy it to *imsdroid\libs\$(ABI)* where *ABI* is equal to *armeabi* for the ARMv5te version or *armeabi-v7a* for ARMv7-a.

=== Building GPL version ===
If you are license owner then, you can build a GPL version of Doubango and iDoubs like this:
{{{
../bindings/java/android/gpl.sh
}}}

=== More options ===
The options listed below are used with *buildAll.sh* script. If you don't know which one to use then, we recommend using on of these pre-configured scripts: *commercial.sh*, *lgpl.sh* or *gpl.sh*<br /> 
 * *LICENSE*: License type. Possible values: _gpl_ or _lgpl_<br /> 
 * *NO_FREE*: Whether to include non free 3rd parties libraries (such as AMR or G.729). Possible values: yes or no<br /> 
 * *FFMPEG*: Whether to enable FFmpeg (most of video features) or not. Possible values: _yes_ or _no_<br /> 
 * *H264*: Whether to enable H.264 (x264 for now) or not. Possible values: _yes_ or _no_.<br /> 
 * *THEORA*: Whether to enable Theora video codec or not. Possible values: _yes_ or _no_.<br /> 
 * *OPENCORE_AMR*: Whether to enable AMR audio codec or not. Possible values: _yes_ or _no_.<br /> 
 * *SPEEX_DSP*: Whether to enable Speex-DSP (echo cancelation, jitter buffer, Noise suppression...) or not. Possible values: yes or no<br /> 
 * *SPEEX_JB*: Whether to enable Speex Jitter Buffer or not. Possible values: _yes_ or _no_<br /> 
 * *SPEEX_RESAMPLER*: Whether to enable Speex-DSP audio Resampler or not. Possible values: yes or no<br /> 
 * *SPEEX_DENOISE*: Whether to enable Speex-DSP denoiser or not. Possible values: _yes_ or _no_<br /> 
 * *SPEEX*: Whether to enable Speex audio codec or not. Possible values: _yes_ or _no_<br /> 
 * *ILBC*: Whether to enable iLBC audio codec or not. Possible values: _yes_ or _no_<br /> 
 * *LIBGSM*: Whether to enable GSM audio codec or not. Possible values: yes or no<br /> 
 * *G729*: Whether to enable G.729 audio codec or not. Possible values: _yes_ or _no_<br /> 
 * *VPX*: Whether to enable VPX video codecs (VP8) or not. Possible values: _yes_ or _no_<br /> 
 * *NEON*: Whether to enable ARMv7 Neon optimizations or not. Possible values: _yes_ or _no_<br /> 

=== Building LGPL version ===
If you are license owner then, you can build a non-GPL version of Doubango and iDoubs like this:
{{{
../bindings/java/android/lgpl.sh
}}}

=== Building Commercial version ===
If you are license owner then, you can build a non-GPL version of Doubango and iDoubs like this:
{{{
../bindings/java/android/commercial.sh
}}}

Et voilà