#summary Getting Started
#labels Featured,Phase-Requirements

Before starting to use the client you should configure your identity and the network settings. This short guide explain how to do this.

= Identity =
At the home screen, go to *Options->Identity* to open the *Identity screen*.<br />

[http://imsdroid.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/screenshots/screen_identity.png http://imsdroid.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/screenshots/screen_identity.png]

*Display Name:* Your nickname. Useless in this beta version.<br />

*IMS Public Identity (IMPU):* As its name says, it’s your public visible identifier where you are willing to receive calls or any demands. An IMPU could be either a SIP or tel URI (e.g. tel:+33100000 or sip:bob@open-ims.test).<br />
For those using IMSDroid as a basic SIP client, the IMPU should coincide with their SIP URI (a.k.a SIP address).<br />

*IMS Private Identity (IMPI):* The IMPI is a unique identifier assigned to a user (or UE) by the home network. It could be either a SIP URI (e.g. sip:bob@open-ims.test), a tel URI (e.g. tel:+33100000) or any alphanumeric string (e.g. bob@open-ims.test or bob). <br />
For those using IMSDroid as a basic SIP client, the IMPI should coincide with their authentication name. If you don't know what is your IMPI, then fill the field with your SIP address as above.<br />

*Password:* Your password.<br />

*Realm:* The realm is the name of the domain to authenticate to. It should be a valid SIP URI (e.g. sip:open-ims.test). <br />

*3GPP Early IMS Security:* If you are not using an IMS server you should use this option to disable some heavy IMS authentication procedures.<br />

= Network Settings =
At the home screen, go to *Options->Network* to open the *Network screen*. <br />

[http://imsdroid.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/screenshots/screen_network.png http://imsdroid.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/screenshots/screen_network.png]

*IP version:* In this beta version only IPv4 is supported.<br />

*Proxy-CSCF Host:* This is the IP address or FQDN (Fully-Qualified Domain Name) of your SIP server or outbound proxy (e.g. 88.89.125.125 or example.com). <br />

*Proxy-CSCF Port:* The port associated to the proxy host. Should be *5060*.<br />

*Transport:* The transport type (TCP or UDP) to use.<br />

*Proxy-CSCF Discovery:* Should be None. <br />

*Enable SigComp:* Will enable Signaling Compression. Only check if your server support this feature. Should not be checked. <br />